Technology (Python?) assistance ...

I am a former C/C++ embedded/DSP programmer who took a 10 year leave into upper management, then retired (for 5 more years) and now looking to revamp my programming skills - using Python (I program on a Macbook Pro). I am looking for some “hand holding”. I need help with the following:

Setting up and becoming familiar with a Python environment on my Mac AND developing a workflow. 
I have a github account with some “good attempts” at some code; but my git skills are limited
I have downloaded anaconda; but struggle with setting environments and getting a good workflow
I have tried VS code; but find myself going back to VIM (it’s amazing the muscle memory of keystrokes that come back).
I played around with tmux (but I don't seem to be able to remember the keyboard commands)
I cannot get the hang of Pandas commands. It seems there is a command for everything; but I can never remember what is what.
I have several programs I’d like to write; but I get stuck - it seems like I spend my life on stackoverflow.com; but only end up writing a line of code a day. Code I’d like to write:
I’m part way through the task of moving my 3TB - NAS to google drive; but there are so many duplicate files and SO much that needs to be automated about this process. I’ve written some code (got goauth2 working, simple readers ... but get stuck often). 
I have ~100K pictures in Google Photo. Over half of which are scanned (and so do not have accurate EXIF info). Since Google and others are able to do facial recognition, I (think I) should be able to use ML to order photos based on aging faces (using good EXIF data for training data). But I need help even getting started.
I display my pic using Google “ambient mode”; but often want to make changes to what I see. How cool would it be to have an app that would “mark” the picture that I wanted to change; so I could edit it (manually) later?
I have a stock market (actually ETF) picker; that works well; but the program needs SO much more help. I could use advice on the best way forward. (I am interested in adding backtesting, confidence analysis, alternate evaluation.)
I have MANY fintech ideas (a lot of personal finance) ideas that I want to code.
SO MUCH MORE..
I have selected Python 3; but I wonder if there is another language I should consider


I live in the Elkridge, MD area and I would be most interested in-person help; but am willing to work virtually.

I **could** be interested in forming a partnership with a self-motivated coder to set up a company where we could monetize our efforts; but my goals to start with are a personal to become a better coder. I want to learn how to “fish”; and I can get there by looking at your coding examples.

I am very flexible on work hours (and place - a good deal of remote help is fine).  Pay is negotiable (give me your pitch). 
